Now last time I told you that the best way to learn about use the query scope is to have some practice.
So I will give you this practice right now.
So in the next couple of lectures we'll try to do something cool with our application.
So as the first example what we'll do is instead of just displaying this boring list of all the blog
posts on our application we'll try to display another box which would show what blog posts are the most
commented ones.
So let's see how we can do that.
Let's go to the blog post.
So this is our first local scope and we'll add next.
So we are having public function starting with the scope as always.
And let's call this scope.
Most commented.
Now we have one argument which is the query builder.
All right.
Now let's see how we can get that.
So you know that we can use the wave count method to fetch the count of particular relation us additional
field that is being selected from the query so we can do with count comments.
And I'm not sure if you remember that or not but using whip count with our relation name will produce
a field called comments count.
Now what we can do with this is now since it is being selected we can order by it.
So let's add order by comments count and we'll do that in descending order.
So we want to show first all the blog posts that have at most comments added to them.
OK.
Now let's say the changes and let's open the terminal and run the artisan Tinker So BHP artisan thinker
this way will verify if that actually works.
So we are using a blog post we can call most commented.
Now we'll just get the actual query and to make results actually readable on the screen.
We'll use the method of the collections that we have used before which is called pluck which means we
would like to only take a couple of properties or actually we want just one.
So we want the comments count and what we did is we made sure that we got results ordered by the comments
count.
So the most commented blog post has 12 comments.
Second one is also with 12.
And then you see less and less now.
OK.
This works we are sure that our query scope is working properly.
Now let's actually implement that.
So it is visible inside the application.
So let's proceed with implementing this inside the view where we display all the blog posts.
So you will have to open a view from the views posts indexed BHP.
So here is a list of all our blog posts.
And as you can see it is being rendered inside the layout inside a div class container.
So what we can do for that is we can use the grid system from bootstrap.
So we'll have to add our role and some columns into it so let's go ahead and do that.
So inside that section content will add div class with the CSX class row.
We'll have to close it at the end.
Now what we display here in the four ls directive block inside it.
So all the blog posts will have a column with with eight
so this would be the bigger one.
And will also display our special box with that column with four.
So this would be like two thirds one third split
here will display some extra box that will show the most commented blog posts at the current time.
So for that we'll use our card element from the bootstrap so let's copy this quite big.
Example we'll have something like this.
So copy this and paste into here.
Now it's not really properly formatted so we'll have to do some work to make it look a little bit better.
Okay.
So let me format that really quickly.
We won't need an image and now we can change the title.
So most comment that and the subtitle to something what people are currently talking about now we will
also we won't need those links at the bottom.
But here is a list of all the blog posts that are supposed to be the most commented at the current time.
Now inside this view we have access to the posts the variable that we have passed here.
Now we will have to pass another one
so let's call it.
Most Commented and we will fetch that using blog post most comment at
and um maybe we won't need too much.
So let's use take five and get
now.
Let's see if all of that works.
So yes it is being displayed here properly sized US one third two thirds split.
Now let's go back to the index template.
And here we can use that for each directive
so well maybe well it's actually renamed up to better names so most comment that we've this type of
case almost most comment that US post let's close the for each using end for each.
And obviously we will only have to display one element inside of this loop.
So let's echo the post title.
All right.
Now let's see what people are currently talking about.
And we have five posts.
So apparently this one is the one that people talk about most often.
So let's find it.
And while this makes sense it actually has 12 comments.
So with him it seems that it is actually working properly.
Now let's also go ahead and style it a little bit better
so we'll change this paragraph to age 6 header and let's also modify the classes to use card subtitle
and some marking at the bottom end of text muted and maybe also will reformat that so it is clearly
visible on the screen.
And what we can also additionally do here is we can create a link to those particular most commented
blog posts.
So it is root posts show.
Now we'll have to specify that I.D. us post Heidi
inside it would be the post title.
And let's close the core element.
So let me check if I did that properly.
The parameter name is actually are post not I.D..
All right.
Now let's save the changes and verify if this actually works.
So let's refresh this page so we have this most commented books what people are currently talking about.
And we have the links to the most popular our blog posts.
You can see that they all have a lot of comments.
So that was the one example.
And in the next lecture we'll see some more interesting examples that you can use for our application.